[Music]
hi
i'm cassie from bbc good food i'm going
to help you make your christmas magical
by showing you how to decorate a
faultline cake
this is my own recipe from the november
issue of bbc good food let's get started
so we've got our sponges baked and
cooled and our buttercream is ready to
go
so now i'm going to assemble the cake
and start stacking the layers
so we'll take our first sponge just
place it in the center
and then apply
a nice dollop of the buttercream to the
center of the cake
now using your palette knife just spread
the buttercream to the edges
if you've got a turntable like this one
it will really help when you're
decorating the cake
and now because this is a spiced caramel
cake we're going to add a little drizzle
of
caramel sauce as well
just spread that out on top of the
buttercream
okay that looks great so now we're ready
to add the next layer
[Music]
there's our buttercream done so we'll
add some more caramel
and just keep stacking the layers in
this way until you've used up all the
[Music]
sponges
so now the cakes are all stacked i'm
going to use about half of the remaining
icing to cover the outside in a crumb
coating
now this layer just traps all of the
loose crumbs inside the icing so that
our final
cake will be lovely and polished with no
crumbs
so i like to do this by just
dolloping that lovely icing on top of
the cake
then use a palette knife to just
paddle the icing across the top and down
the sides of the cake
this is a really good time to make sure
that your sides are nice and straight
so if your cake looks a little bit
wobbly you can just
nudge it into place with your palette
knife so spread it out nice and thin
you don't need a thick coating at this
point and just make sure
every part of the cake is covered
[Music]
so the cake is covered with the crumb
coat now and you can still see the
layers of cake through the icing but
that's absolutely fine so we're going to
cover it again
later with our final layer of icing for
a lovely finish
and just make sure the sides are nice
and straight
and then level off the top so you can do
this just by
dragging the icing in towards the center
so our crumb coat's done now i'm going
to pop this in the fridge for 30 minutes
to chill
[Music]
our cake's had 30 minutes in the fridge
so it's really nice and firm now
and we're ready to add a band of icing
around the middle which i'll use to
stick the sprinkles onto
so for this i'm going to use a small
offset palette knife
you can use a regular palette knife if
that's what you've got but this just
makes the job a little bit easier
just take a small amount of buttercream
and apply it to
the center of the cake and again don't
worry about this being too neat at this
point
you just want to spread a layer
all the way around the center of the
cake
[Music]
now it's the fun bit time to apply the
sprinkles
so i've got a big tray here to catch the
sprinkles in whilst we're pushing them
onto the side of the cake
so i'm just going to lift the cake into
our tray
and then put your sprinkles in a nice
big bowl
because you need to take a big handful
and
just press them onto that band around
the center
and let any excess just fall into the
tray
[Music]
that looks great so i'm just going to
pop the cake back in the fridge for
another 30 minutes or so until it's nice
and firm
just to make sure those sprinkles are
really nicely stuck to the cake
okay the cake's been chilling for
another half an hour and it's really
nice and firm now the sprinkles are
stuck
tight so we're ready to go on with the
final
layer of icing and i'm going to start on
the bottom
so again using the small offset palette
knife
just take a small amount and just apply
it to the bottom of the cake
now you want it to just start to cover
the sprinkles
but don't come too far up because you
want the sprinkles just peeking through
from the fault line just apply it all
the way around and we're going to smooth
over in a minute
so we've covered the bottom band with
icing now i'm going to use the palette
knife to just smooth it out
so we've covered the bottom of the cake
with our icing so now we'll move on to
the top half of the cake
so again take some more icing and this
time we're going to apply it to this top
band of the cake
and in the same way you did before
just blob the icing all the way around
the top
and smooth it out as you go
okay so that's the top covered now i'm
just going to hold the palette knife
nice and straight and smooth around
again now we need to tidy things up a
bit
to do this i'm going to use a cake
scraper i've got one here
it's just a nice thick piece of plastic
with a straight sharp edge
and you can make one of these at home if
you've got a nice sturdy piece of
plastic that you can just cut into a
rectangle
so holding the cake scraper against the
side of the cake
vertically we're just going to swipe
around the edges removing any excess
and giving us a nice flat surface
okay i'm really happy with that now
we're just going to finish the cake by
cleaning up the top layer a little bit
so again
with your flat palette knife just pull
in the sides
and this will give you a really nice
sharp top
the cake looks beautiful as it is but
i'm just going to add a final flourish
with some edible gold along the
faultline edge
so i've got some edible gold liquid here
and a little paint brush
and i'm just going to apply a tiny
little bit
along this broken edge and this just
gives that fault line effect a little
bit of sparkle
just keep going until you've covered the
whole cake
[Music]
now you've seen how to decorate our
fault line cake why not give it a go
yourself this christmas
we'd love to see your creations so tag
us on instagram
at bbc good food